---
layout: post
title: Wrapping up 2018
---

Once again, one of my new-year resolution will be to write more blog posts.
So, to start on a good note (even before 2019!), I wanted to write about what I did and did not achieve this year.

## What were my goals in 2018?

Those were my main objectives when it comes to programming for 2018:

- write a blog post a week
- make my first dollar from one of my side projects
- do more Leetcode problems
- get better at devops work

## How did it go?

#### Write a blog post a week

__Result: Didn't happen! 🙁__

I feel like I don't have a lot of interesting things to explain. I still struggle to go into a lot of details
when it comes to explaining solutions to programming issues. I decided on writing blog posts to just explain
what I work on and how I approach problems I have no idea how to go about.

#### Make my first dollar from one of my side-projects

__Result: Didn't happen! 🙁__

Unfortunately, I had to shut-down my main side-project and have been started a few new ones but abandoned most of them as I discovered the idea was not great or already done.

#### Do more Leetcode problems

__Result: Kind of happened!__

I did a few problems here and there but wasn't dedicated enough to do them every other day. I was either too busy/tired with work, or simply doing something else.

#### Get better at devops work

__Result: It happened!__

On that front, I think I made a lot of progress. I digged a lot more into AWS, debugged and fixed a few tough issues related to some of our Docker containers for a service I worked on at Adroll.
I also worked on a side-project where I made use of ECS, and tinkered with writing some nice deployments scripts.
This project is a perfect toy-project as it started with a simple SQLite DB, no caching, no queues and local storage of files on the container itself (making it pretty useless),
but I am making it production ready by switching to RDS, S3, SQS and so on. It also made me realize that I really like working on developer tools, as I am usually able to use it for myself so it adds extra motivation.


## What are my goal for 2019?
- write a blog post per week.
- make my first dollar from one of my side projects.
- read more technical books, aiming for 12 a year.
- do more public speaking (tech talks, meetups)
- contribute more to open-source.
- release a Flutter app.
- tinker with Arduino.

